[Music]
several thousand years ago the planet
Cybertron was consumed by a civil war
between the two transformer factions the
Autobots led by Optimus Prime and the
Decepticons led by Megatron Optimus
jettisoned the Allspark a mystical
artifact that brings life to the planet
into space but Megatron pursued it
Megatron crashed onto earth landing in
the Arctic Circle and froze and was
discovered in 1895 by Explorer Archibald
Witwicky Witwicky inadvertently
activated Megatron's navigational system
which edged the allsparks coordinates
into his glasses the glasses end up in
the possession of his great great
grandson Sam Witwicky in the present Sam
buys his first car a rusting Chevrolet
Camaro but discovers it has a life of
its own black out attacks and destroys
the United States military base in a
failed attempt to hack the military
network to find information on Megatron
and the Allspark a team of Army Rangers
led by Captain William Lennox escape
across the desert pursued by blackouts
drone Scorponok
they fight Scorponok off aided by aerial
reinforcements and travel home with
Scorponok stinger discovering Sabo
rounds damaged its armor at the Pentagon
Secretary of Defense John Keller leads
the investigation into the attack sound
analyst Maggie Madsen catches another
Decepticon frenzy hacking into the US
military Network while on board Air
Force One
while the hack is thwarted frenzy
downloads files on Archibald's glasses
tracking down Sam with barricade
disguised as a police car Sam and his
high-school crush Mikaela Bane's are
rescued from barricade and frenzied by
the Camaro who turns out to be Autobot
Scout bumblebee but he is mute and has
to communicate through his car radio
previously sending a beacon to his
fellow Autobots bumblebee takes Sam and
Mikayla to meet the new arrivals optimus
jazz Ironhide and ratchet Optimus
explains the details of their situation
revealing that if Megatron gained the
Allspark he would transform Earth's
machinery into a new army than
exterminate mankind Sam of Mikaela and
the Autobots traveled to Sam's house to
retrieve the glasses but the teenagers
are captured by agents of sector 7 a
top-secret government branch led by
Seymour Simmons the Autobots stopped the
agents but they call for backup
who takes Sam Michaela and bumblebee
into custody while Optimus obtains the
glasses and uses them to locate the
Allspark the respective groups connected
to the Transformers are gathered
together at hoover dam by sector sevens
director tom banachek who reveals
Megatron still frozen and the Allspark
frenzy who smuggled away in Mikayla's
beg summons the other Decepticons to
attack and sabotages Megatron's cryonic
system bumblebee is released to protect
the Allspark shrinking it down to a
handheld size so it can be transported
to safety
Megatron escaped the dam after thawing
out frenzied attack secretary Keller
Madsen and agent Simmons in the dams
radio room trying to prevent them from
summoning the air force but as
decapitated by his own ricocheting
shuriken a lengthy battle occurs in
Mission City with most of the
Decepticons being killed but Megatron
kills Jaz he prevents Sam's attempted
escape with the Allspark and begins to
fight Optimus after a long battle
Megatron seems to get the upper hand
Optimus then tell Sam to push the cube
into his chest in order to ensure their
mutual destruction but Sam rams into
Megatron's chest instead extinguishing
his spark Starscream and barricade are
the only Decepticons to survive the
battle and escape optimus savages a
shard of the Allspark from Megatron's
body the united states government shuts
down sector 7 disposing of the dead
Decepticons in the Laurentian abyss Sam
and Mikaela then start a romantic
relationship while the Autobots secretly
hide out on earth Optimus sends a
transmission into space inviting any
surviving Autobots to join them a brief
mid-credits scene show Starscream
escaping into space to rally other
Decepticons and summon them to earth
[Music]